So the goal is to create such a token and return that to the user upon successful login.
Now first of all in our back-end, we need to create a fitting route.
Thus far, we only got a route which allows us to create a new user. Now in the user.js file in the routes
folder,
I will create another route with the router here,
it's also a post route but I will listen to /login or actually /api/user/login
as you know.
There we have the method we already know with request, response and next and we will do something when
a request reaches that route
and that something I want to do as I want to create such a token.
Well first I want to validate whether the credentials are valid
but if that's the case, then I want to validate the user.
Now this will actually be a multi-step process.
First of all, we need to find out whether the e-mail address exists. Now for that, we can use our user
model which we're already importing
and I can find an instance of that model in the database.
For that, I will pass an object to basically narrow down which results I want to find and look for a
user where the e-mail address in that database matches the e-mail address which is attached to our request.
I can then chain then here to handle the case that we got a response which would be the user
and actually if we have a user,
well then I know that we have that email address. On the other hand, if we don't find a user here, then
we get no user and I can also use find one here
by the way. So this will find exactly one user
and now I can check whether user exists and if it does not exist,
so if user is undefined here, well then I can actually return a response where I set the status code
to
you could say 404 because you didn't find the user or
401 because authentication is denied and send back some Json data if you want,
for example an object where you have a message where you say auth failed,
that is up to you what you send back.
Now important, I do return my response here,
I didn't do that earlier because I will now add code after that if statement.
I could wrap it into an else statement but that would mean one extra layer of nesting here
and I just want to check whether we don't have a user, return a response and otherwise proceed.
So here we know we did find a user with that e-mail address, that allows me to then compare the password
the user entered into the login form with the password stored in the database.
The problem with the password stored in the database of course is that we hashed it, remember with bcrypt,
we hashed the password.
Now I said that we can't unhash the password, so how can we then find out whether the password in the
database is the same password as entered by the user?
Well it's a bit like the thing I explain with the token, bcrypt was the package which created the hash
and such a hash can be dehashed
but if you have the same input, you will always get the same hash.
So we can use a useful function bcrypt offers, the compare function to compare an input to an encrypted
value and bcrypt will tell us if that input would yield the same value without needing
to decrypt the encrypted value which would not be possible.
So here we pass request body password, data we get from the input form and then we have a user.
Remember this yields a user here,
so there we can access user password, the password stored in the database.
Now this will actually return a new promise,
so I can just return the result of that compare operation and then chain another then
call here. There I will get back the result of that compare operation.
Now that result will be true if we did successfully compare or false if we failed.
Additionally we could run into other errors,
so we'll also add a catch block here and there also return my not successful message and here in the
then block, I will check whether result is true
because this will be a boolean,
if it is true, then I know hey we do have a successful match, if it is false though, so this is what I
will actually check for,
I also want to return my response where I deny authentication.
If we make it past that if block, I know that we do have a valid password though,
so this is where I want to continue and create this Json Web Token I was talking about.
Now if you want to learn more about Json Web Tokens, you can visit jwt.io,
there you can read more about it
and there you can also see how such a token will look like, it's really just some text.
However I said this one can be decoded
and here on the right is how such or which data such a token typically holds. Information about the hashing
algorithm used, some additional payload which you can actually change, you can add your own payload like
the email address for example and then some verification signature which is required by the server to
verify that this is a valid token.
And that is what I meant,
if you mess with this in your client side code which you could theoretically, then the entire token
will not be verifiable on the back-end anymore because if you change one character, the server will not
be able to validate it again.
So this is what goes into a token and thankfully, you don't need to construct this from scratch,
there is a package which helps you with that.
So back in our project, let me quit one process, we can install that with npm install --save
jsonwebtoken, one word. That is a third party package that helps you with the creation and validation
of such tokens.
Let me restart ngServe
and now here, I will import this below bcrypt maybe, store it in a constant named JWT and import it by
running require Json Web Token, like this. Now with that import added, we can use it in the login route
to create a new web token.
So here in the then block where we know we have a valid password sent by the user, there I will create
a new token by running jwt.sign, this method creates a new token based on some input data of your choice.
Now the input data of my choice will be a javascript object where I store the email of the user with user
email, not the password because I don't want to send data back to the user even if it is encrypted
and I also want to send back the user ID though because that will later be useful on the front-end and
I could access this by using _id or accessing _id on the user object I got from
the database.
So this is now my JWT element or my Json Web Token,
now we can also pass a second argument or we have to pass a second argument actually.
Besides the payload, we need to enter our own secret, like a password we use for creating these hashes.
This will only be stored on the server and it will be used to validate these hashes,
this is what makes them uncrackable.
Now typically, this should be a very long word or a very long string combination, here
I will name this secret,
this should be longer and that really is the case.
This is just for development,
typically you have a longer string here.
So now we got our secret set up there,
now we'll pass one more argument,
that's an optional one
and that allows me to configure that token,
so the javascript object and
there you can set a couple of values, one of them being the expiresIn property,
whoops. ExpiresIn
allows you to define how long this should last
and if you want to see all options available, you can use Intellisense here in most IDEs.
There you see which values you can get set and you can of course dive into the official docs of that
package, to which you find a link in the last lecture of this module to learn more about that.
Now expiresIn actually takes a string to describe the duration and you enter something like 1h for
one hour and actually one hour is a pretty good value. That token shouldn't last too long because
whilst you can't fake it, it's of course stored on the front-end.
Now if your app is not vulnerable to cross-site scripting attacks, it should be secure there,
still it's an additional security mechanism to ensure that it doesn't last forever.
And with that, we get a token that will expire after one hour
and now, we're creating that token.
Now let's send it back to the front-end and connect the front-end
to this back-end here, to this new route in the next lecture.